(videogame chiming)
(bell dinging)
- [Instructor] Git logs are a great way
to take a peek at your history,
but sometimes the history is too long,
and you don't want to go through all of it.
How can you get a more concise commit history
within a date range containing a specific keyword?
I'll give you a couple of seconds to think
about how you would do something like this.
(vidiogame whirling) (8-bit music)
(vidiogame whirling)
Most of us take the git log command for granted.
It gives us a list of all of the commits
along with the messages, the dates
and these longer hashtags that we can use to refer to them.
Let me go ahead and hit the Q key to get back.
There's a lot of power in the git log statement
that you can use by accessing different flags.
So the first, and my favorite, is the oneline flag.
So if I say git log oneline here, and I'm always
mistyping this by forgetting that E, just saying online,
cause I'm used to typing that word.
So be careful there, and if you take a look at that,
it gives you a much more concise history
with a shorter hashtag right here
as well as the branch info and the short message.
So that's a little bit more useful, but we can improve
on that even more by adding some additional flags.
So let's try one that I really love,
and that's the git log oneline, and we can use date flags.
So we can say after, and in here we can type
in pretty much English commands.
So I know that I didn't do a commit yesterday,
but we can type that in
and see if we did anything yesterday.
So I can do that.
Notice that it just says "END" right there,
and if I want to, I can switch that
to pretty much anything else that makes sense to me.
So I can say something like last week
and looks like I had one commit last week.
So let's try some more.
So I could say something like six months ago
and looks like this isn't a particularly active one.
So let's try something much longer, 24 months ago.
So that gives me a lot more information there,
and that's pretty cool.
I can narrow that down to a specific time frame,
but I can do better than that.
I can say I want to search for a specific keyword.
So instead of after, I can type in grep,
and that is a Linux type of search,
and type in a keyword right here.
So now it's finding these two commits
that have the keyword "animation."
Now I know I did another commit
with the keyword "animation."
Let's type Q again, but I probably had an uppercase letter.
So you can use any sort of grepping commands here.
So I can type in brackets and then put the capital
and the lowercase A, and it's going to find a commit
with either a capital or a lowercase A,
and if I had Return, it's going to find all three of them.
So this is a super way to find
a specific commit with some parameters.
Grep makes it even more powerful,
and you should go into the.
Rephrase, and I suggest that you look at the documentation
because this is one of the richest commands
in Git and the more you explore it,
the better you'll be able to find your older commits.